$Id$

HOW TO BUILD JAPE FOR A PARTICULAR MACHINE

1. Be on some kind of Unix box to start with (Linux, OS X, Solaris) EVEN
if you want to build a Windows Jape. Sorry about that: we haven't got
round to automating the build on Windows.

2. Get hold of a jape source distribution
(jape.source.v<something>.tgz). Unpack it.

3. To build a Linux version, make sure you've got OCaml and Java.

	cd jape.source/LinuxJape/build 
	make distribution

-- it will build installLinuxJape.jar. Double-click that and follow the
prompts to install jape in a directory of your choice.

4. To build a Solaris version, just as Linux but SolarisJape/build
instead of LinuxJape/build

5. To build an OS X version, make sure you've got XCode, Java and OCaml
installed.

	cd jape.source/MacOSX 
	make

-- XCode will make Jape.app somewhere (the blasted thing keeps changing
where it puts is) and OCaml will make jape.engine in
jape.source/camlengine. Move or copy those files into some folder
somewhere, double-click Jape.app and off you go.

6. To build a WindowsJape

	cd jape.source/WindowsJape/build 
	make distribution

-- which will build makejape.bat in that directory, and then invite you
to complete the job on a Windows box which can see this filestore.

6a. Somehow get your box to export its filestore to Windows (on OS X I
do this by enabling Windows sharing, which gives me a network address;
then on the Windows box I go to My Computer, and under the Tools menu
click Map a Network Drive; then I fill in the info).

6b. The Windows box MUST have OCaml installed, and Microsoft Visual
Studio. Run the tool (part of Visual Studio) which starts a Visual
Studio command prompt (you can't do it from a normal DOS prompt cos the
paths aren't set up right). Then, supposing in step b you got the Z
drive

	z: 
	cd jape.source/WindowsJape/build 
	makejape.bat

6c. After some time the OCaml compilation will complete. Go back to the
Unix box, and press the return key. The process will complete and leave
you with installWindowsJape.jar. Somehow put that on a Windows box which
has a Java (not Microsoft's broken version, please), double-click it and
follows the prompts to install Jape in a directory of your choice.

Richard Bornat 7/ix/2007

Credits: Bernard Sufrin built most of the installation technology (i.e.
the Linux/Windows/Solaris bits); Richard Bornat built the OS X bit and
did a bit of maintenance on the rest.



